Project padding.
Okay, come clean.
We've all done it, but why?
And is it a good idea?
Is there a right way to pad?
Well, let's find out in this section.
Arbitrary padding.
Let's look at a definition.
Padding is excess time, arbitrarily added to an estimate.
It might look something like this.
This is purely arbitrary padding with no value and no
assumptions in place whatsoever.
Now let's look at an example here.
How long will the system architecture design take?
Hummm, you think to yourself, 8 hours, but heck, let's triple it.
Okay, 24 hours.
Now why do we do this?
So let's explore in the next slide the reasons why we do arbitrary padding.
Now here are some reasons why padding is used.
And some might be familiar to you.
Fear of being wrong.
Boy, I've got to give an estimate,
I don't want to be wrong and I don't want to be too small
I better throw some padding on there.
I might even get in trouble for making another estimate that was not very good.
I just really have no idea how long it will take,
so I'm going to double or triple up.
I'm not even sure what I'm being asked to do.
So what do you usually do in these conditions?
I will just make a guess at the estimate and of course double or triple it.
You mean arbitrary padding of course.
Those are the wrong reasons to pad. Now let's talk about the side effects of arbitrary padding.